---
layout: post
title:  "learn(Vue);"
date:   2019-07-05 02:02:25
categories: vue
---

**My notes on starting with Vue**

___


I am actually working on a disqus alternative, something that is open source and is self hosted and is just
open and extensible in general, be it the design or the features.

I decided to go with Vue for this one, based on a few times I scratched the surface through one of those medium articles.
To kickstart that, I needed to know what I was getting into, so I sat down and went through the docs, and boy am I happy to choose Vue!

<br>
### Notes from the doc reading process:
<br>
- Reactivity
  - So far, the framework seems to focus a lot on how `reactive` everything is. I tried fitting its gears into the Rx
  lingua franca, and I could see how I could view certain elements of the framework as a Signals(the data layer), and some others as Subscribers(the view layer),
  we could throw in some operators too(computed properties, filters and more)!

- v-bind
  - The signal analogy helped here. I viewed this directive as something which converts a static field into a dynamic signal, or an observable.
 
  - You just provide a source for this signal and it starts flowing.
    - Imagine your data object in `new Vue({ data: { count: 0 } });` as a signal or a stream of data and whenever you bind an attribute to the data,
    all you are doing is piping the stream's contents to a subscriber.

- MVVM
  - I can't comment on it much whatever I found on Wikipedia impressed me, the whole ViewModel and Binder concept looks interesting.

- Reactive System
  - This was the meat I was looking for! This explained the whole `defineProperty` -> Watcher -> Async Update DOM Queue
  - `Observable.from(Vue instance's data object).subscribe(change => update DOM)` was the pseudo code I thought I would find and that's what their Reactivity System seems to be doing.

- General Observations
  - An instance or a component seems to be a reflection of the DOM element they are bound to.
  
  - A directive’s job is to reactively apply side effects to the DOM when the value of its expression changes.

  - Computed properties
    - I liked the caching and reactive dependency

  - Child to parent event handling
    - I was impressed by `.sync`


___

I skipped through the Vuex and Router part and will be looking into it later. But for someone coming from backend background, Vue feels natural.
The decisions it made and the way it structured itself, there seems to a flow. 

Well, that wraps it up!