---
layout: post
title:  "Change is the only constant"
date:   2019-07-04 02:02:25
categories: life
---

If we set aside the monotonous aspect of our work, there is a little space for us, to express ourself.
Each piece you build, is built in a certain way that adheres to industry standards and norms but at the same time,
tries to be a reflection of your thinking. You might be aware of this already, or this might be the first time you are
hearing about this, but this is what I have observed about myself.

Mechanical, yet innovative, like Steam Punk, is what I would classify my style as. You too would have a signature, that marks your work.
Well, it just happens that I am looking to switch up my style. There's nothing wrong with it, and I am not up for completely changing it, just
the mechanical part.

The best way to do that would be to use that little space of self expression. But trying to build scalable architectures and figuring out efficient data
structure doesn't seem like the right way to go about. Maybe something visual, something which values a e s t h e t i c s  and might also use my engineering skills.
**Frontend apps come to mind!** And whatever experience I managed to gain in frontend tells me it's not just about placing `div`s here and there. 

And hence, my journey begins. I have been reading up on Vue and so far I have been nothing but amazed, both at the solution and the problem.
I have a feeling I will learn more about my mechanical aspect of thinking but the fact that everything you build, just shows, will force me to think more freely.


Here's to learning!